# Git Practice

## Link to the Article

<https://blog.bpmmusic.io/news/the-future-of-ai-and-music-production/>

## Comments

The article discusses the impact of artificial intelligence (AI) and data-driven technologies on the music industry. The author highlights the use of AI in the industry such as Shazam's machine learning to identify songs and Spotify's data-driven playlists. He also mentions concerns about AI music production, such as the potential for plagiarism and producing bland work due to its data-biased nature.However, while AI technologies can model human creativity, they cannot replace the human touch and are meant to be used as tools to enhance the creative process.

## jlalo01's Comments
On a personal note... AI in art is a subject of great importance to discuss as well as scary for artists. AI as a tool for artists sounds like a great incorporation to an artist's toolset, which is what the article mostly centers on, contrary to mainly looking forward to AI made music. In composition, as mentioned by the writier, to slightly tweak and alter already existing music to the taste of the contractor, be it for film, gaming and other content. Regarding songwriting is where I get scared, but the article makes mention of AI in songwriting. Although what is mentioned does not seem to be as much for lirics as it is for actually writing the music, chords and melodies. The program it mentions, amadeus, seems to be a very low intelligence AI, which only makes suggestions based on existing ideas and music, which gives me a good persepective of how far away we probably are from an AI that could replicate human emotion in the form of song. On production is where I think AI can be most useful, as it's the part where organization governs all, contrary to artistry, creativity emotion, so I will not make comment on it. Mastering and Mixing... This one is a BIG tool for indepenedent songwriters. The article mentions that engineers don't think AI can replace the human ear, and I agree. But mastering and mixing is where independent songwriters could be EVEN worse... They are artists not engineers or mixers, it's a whole different art; so any AI that can support in this area will, in my opinion be useless against a professional mixer, yet it will give independents a fighting chance agains big companies with a lot of money to spare. 